# RCN-225

## DCC Protocol

```
Configuration Variables
```
```
Date of Issue
27.07.2025
```
```
RailCommunity – Association
of Digital Model Railroad
Product Manufacturers
```
## Contents

```
1 General .......................................................................................................................... 1
1.1 Purpose of the Standard ........................................................................................................... 1
1.2 Requirements and Definitions .................................................................................. 1
2 CV Table for Mobile Decoders ......................................................................................... 2
2.1 Description of CVs for Mobile Decoders ................................................................ 4
3 CV Table for Accessory Decoders ......................................................................................... 15
3.1 Description of CVs for Accessory Decoders ............................................................... 16
4 CV Table for SUSI Modules ............................................................................................. 18
Appendix A: References to other Standards .............................................................................. 19
A.1 Normative References .................................................................................................. 19
A.2 Informative References ................................................................................................. 19
Appendix B: History ................................................................................................................ 19
```

## 1 General

### 1.1 Purpose of the Standard

This standard defines the assignment and use of Configuration Variables (CVs) in
decoders. CVs make it possible to adapt a decoder to any vehicle or to other mobile or
stationary objects. Unless otherwise specified, CVs must be stored permanently
and must not change, even if the power supply is switched off for a
longer period.

### 1.2 Requirements and Definitions

To comply with this standard, the following conditions must be met.

Supported CVs must be used in the version specified here. The following applies:

*   Mandatory CVs (M) must be supported by every decoder.
*   Recommended CVs (R) should be supported by every decoder.
*   Optional CVs can be supported by decoders.
*   Value unchangeable: This CV is set by the manufacturer and is not
    changeable. See [RCN-226] for write commands to these CVs.
*   Range: Specified value ranges must be adhered to.
*   Bitwise: This CV is composed of up to 8 individual bit values.
*   Reserved: These CVs are reserved for future extensions of the standard.
*   Dynamic: These CVs can be changed by the decoder without being requested.
*   Manufacturer-specific: These CVs can be freely assigned by the manufacturer.
*   User-specific: These CVs can be freely assigned by the user.

In the "Range" column – more precisely "Value range defined" – either the permissible
value range (in DCC operation) is specified or it is marked with a "Yes" that there is a
uniform definition of the values of this CV that must be adhered to.

## 2 CV Table for Mobile Decoders

```
CV No. CV Usage Type Range Comment
1 Primary Address M Yes Default value 3
2 Start Voltage M
3 Acceleration Rate M
4 Braking Rate M
5 Maximum Speed M
6 Mid-Range Speed O
7 Decoder Version Number M Value unchangeable^1;
                                assigned by the manufacturer
8 Manufacturer ID M Yes Value unchangeable^1;
                                specified by NMRA
9 PWM Period O
10 Manufacturer-specific CV O
11 Maximum time without data reception R
12 Permissible Operating Modes O Yes Bitwise
13 Function Status Alternative
   Operating Mode F1-F8 O Yes Bitwise
14 Function Status Alternative
   Operating Mode F0 + F9-F12 O Yes Bitwise
15–16 Decoder Lock O Yes
17–18 Extended Address M Yes Default value 1000
19 Consist Address R Yes
20 long consist address. O Yes
21 Function Control in a
   Consist F1-F8 O Yes Bitwise
```
(^1) Write commands to this CV trigger special functions according to [RCN-226]
```
22 Function Control in a
   Consist F0, F9-F28 O Yes Bitwise
23 Acceleration Adjustment O Yes
24 Braking Adjustment O Yes
25 Speed Table O Yes
26 n/a - Reserved NMRA
27 Configuration for Automatic
   Stopping O Yes Bitwise
28 Configuration of Two-Way
   Communication (RailCom) O Yes Bitwise
29 Decoder Configuration M Yes Bitwise
30 Error Information O Yes Dynamic value;
                                0 = no error
31 Index Value for Extended
   Range, High Byte O Yes Pointer for CV 257–512
32 Index Value for Extended
   Range, Low Byte O Yes Pointer for CV 257–512
33–46 Function Mapping for F0-F12 O Yes
47–64 Manufacturer-specific CVs O
65 Manufacturer-specific CV O
66 Forward Trim O
67–94 Speed Table O
95 Reverse Trim O
96 Method for Function Mapping O Yes See also [RCN-227]
97–104 Manufacturer-specific CVs O
105–106 User ID 1 & 2 O User-specific
107–108 12-bit Extended
          Manufacturer ID (M) Only if CV 8 = 238,
                                otherwise manufacturer-specific
109–111 Manufacturer-specific CVs O
112–256 Manufacturer-specific CVs O
257–512 Extended CV Range O Addressed through
                                CV 31 and 32
513–768 Manufacturer-specific CVs -
769–896 n/a - Reserved NMRA
897–1024 SUSI-CVs O Yes Reserved for SUSI
```

### 2.1 Description of CVs for Mobile Decoders

**CV1 Primary Address**
Bits 0-6 contain the DCC address with a value from 1 to 127 inclusive. Bit 7 must
have the value 0. For the use of protocols other than DCC, any values are
permissible. If the value of CV 1 = 0 or >127 and CV 29 Bit 5 = 0, then the DCC
protocol is disabled. This configuration has no effect on the decoder's ability to respond to
programming commands. The default value is 3 if the decoder is not
pre-programmed for a specific vehicle.

**CV 2 Start Voltage**
The minimum speed is used to define the speed at speed step 1
at which the motor begins to turn. If the starting voltage is zero volts,
then there should be no voltage at the motor. If the value is 255, then the full
DC voltage is at the motor.

**CV 3 Acceleration Rate**
CV 3 determines the acceleration factor. The formula for the acceleration should
be equal to the content of (CV 3 * 0.896) / (number of speed steps). E.g.: The content of
CV 3 is 2. The acceleration is then 0.064 sec / speed step for a decoder with 28
speed steps. If the value of CV 3 is zero, then there is no programmed acceleration.

However, a decoder can also be configured for other formulas.

**CV 4 Braking Rate**
CV 4 determines the factor for braking in the same way as described for CV 3.

**CV 5 Maximum Speed**
CV 5 determines the maximum motor voltage that is present at the highest speed step as a proportion
of the rectified voltage. If the value is 255, then the full
DC voltage is supplied at the highest speed step. If the value is 0 or 1, then the
maximum speed is not used in the calculation of the speed table.

**CV 6 Mid-Range Speed**
CV 6 determines the motor voltage at half the speed steps as a proportion of the
rectified voltage. CV 6 is used to create a simple speed curve.
If the value is 0 or 1, then CV 6 is not used in the calculation of the speed table.

**CV 7 Manufacturer Version Number**
Shows the manufacturer-defined version of the decoder and its value is not
changeable. Write commands to CV 7 can – as described in [RCN-226] – also be
used specifically to configure addressless devices.

**CV 8 Manufacturer ID**
Must contain the manufacturer ID that was assigned by the NMRA to the manufacturer of the decoder.
The currently assigned manufacturer IDs can be found in [S-9.2.2 Appendix
A]. The value in CV 8 is not changeable.

Since the value range of this variable is limited and new manufacturers are added every year,
an extension is planned. If CV 8 has the value 238 = 0xEE, CVs 107
and 108 contain an extended 12-bit manufacturer ID.

Write commands to CV 8 can also – as described in [RCN-226] – be used specifically to
reset the decoder.

**CV 9 PWM Period**
The value in CV 9 determines the period of the pulse-width modulation at the output of the
decoder.

**CV 10 Manufacturer-specific CV**
Was the back-EMF limit in the NMRA, where a value from 1 to 128 inclusive
determines at which speed step the control of the back-EMF, i.e., the regulation of the
speed, is switched off.

Due to different usage, it has been released and may be freely used by the decoder manufacturer.

**CV 11 Maximum time without data reception**
Defines the maximum time period for which the digital operating mode is
maintained even without data reception. A value of 0 means no maximum time, other values define the
maximum time, where times up to at least 20 seconds must be adjustable. According to
[RCN-211] section 5, the maximum time – referred to there as persistence time – must not
be less than 30 ms.

**CV 12 Permissible Operating Modes**
This CV defines in which operating modes the decoder may operate.

Bit | Meaning
--- | ---
0   | DC (Analog operation DC)
1   | Radio control
2   | DCC (Digital operation)
3   | Selectrix (Digital operation)
4   | AC (Analog operation AC)
5   | Motorola (Digital operation)
6   | mfx (Digital operation)
7   | reserved for future protocols or operating modes

For all bits, 0 = operating mode disabled, 1 = operating mode enabled. A prioritization
is not defined by this. How the switch between operating modes occurs is defined in
[RCN-200].

This configuration has no effect on the decoder's ability to respond to
programming commands.

The decoder may only switch to an analog operating mode if it is enabled and
none of the supported digital operating modes are detected. It is irrelevant whether the
digital operating mode is enabled. In addition, bit 2 in CV 29 must also be
set for analog operation. If none of the detected digital operating modes are enabled or if no
digital operating mode is detected and the corresponding analog operating mode is disabled, the
decoder must switch off all outputs.

**CV 13 Function Status Alternative Operating Mode F1-F8**
Defines the status for functions F1 to F8 when the decoder is operating in a mode
in which the corresponding functions cannot be controlled. If a
function can be controlled, the corresponding bit is ignored. The value 0 of a bit
indicates that the function is switched off in analog mode, the value 1 means that the
function is switched on in analog mode. Bit 0 controls F1, bit 7 controls F8.

**CV 14 Function Status Alternative Operating Mode F0, F9-F12**
Defines the status for functions F0 + F9-F12 when the decoder is operating in a mode
in which the corresponding functions cannot be controlled. If a
function can be controlled, the corresponding bit is ignored. The value 0 of a bit
indicates that the function is switched off in analog mode, the value 1 means that the
function is switched on in analog mode. Bit 0 controls F0 in the forward direction, bit 1
controls F0 in the reverse direction, bit 2 controls F9, bit 5 controls F12.

**CV 15 – CV 16 Decoder Lock**
The decoder lock is used with multiple decoders in one vehicle to change CVs in only
one of the decoders with the same primary address (CV 1) or extended address (CV 17
and CV 18). For this, CV 16 must be programmed to a different number in each decoder
before the decoders are installed in the vehicle. To change or read the value of a
CV in one of the installed decoders, you program the
corresponding number in CV 15 and then program the CVs of the selected
decoder. The decoders compare the values in CV 15 and CV 16 and if both values
are equal, access to CVs is enabled. If the comparison fails,
no access to the CVs of this decoder is possible. The lock is independent of whether the
CVs are accessed in programming mode or in operating mode.

Regardless of the values in CVs 15 and 16, it is always possible to
write to CV 15. Only an enabled decoder can be reset by writing the value 8 to CV 8.
CV 16 can also be reset in this process.

The following use of the values in CV 16 is recommended: 1 for motor decoders, 2 for
sound decoders, 3 or higher for other types of decoders, 0 should not be used in vehicles with
multiple decoders so that CV 15 = 0 can lock all decoders.

The values 240 to 255 are reserved as commands for special actions. These values are
not allowed for CV 16. If they are written to CV 15, they are not stored there
but only trigger a defined action. The following value is defined so far:
CV 15 = 255: The decoder copies the value from CV 16 to CV 15, i.e., all decoders are
unlocked. This allows, for example, all decoders to be reprogrammed to the same address.
It is also possible to unlock a single decoder with an unknown value in CV 16.
Furthermore, a programming device can determine which values are in
CV 16 of the individual decoders by querying the values 1 to 239 using single
byte verify commands according to [RCN-214] [Chapter 2.2], i.e., create a list of the available decoders.

**CV 17 – CV 18 Extended Address**
CV 17 and CV 18 contain the extended address of the decoder. It is used when
bit 5 is set in CV 29. CV 17 contains in bits 0 to 5 the 6 higher-order
bits of the 14-bit address, bits 6 and 7 are always set. Thus, the value
is always in the range of 11000000 to 11100111 (192 to 231). CV 18 contains the
lower-order bits of the address and can take the value 0 to 255. The address 0 (CV
17 = 192 and CV 18 = 0) is not allowed.

The default value is 1000 (CV 17 = 195 = 11000011, CV 18 = 232 = 11101000),
if the decoder is not pre-programmed for a specific vehicle.

**CV 19 – CV 20 Consist Address**
If a consist is to be controlled via a 7-bit address according to [RCN-211],
then CV 19 contains in bits 0 to 6 the seven-bit address for controlling the
consist. CV 20 has the value 0 (00000000).

If a consist is to be controlled via a 14-bit address according to [RCN-211],
then CV19 contains in bits 0 to 6 the two lower-order digits of the address in
decimal notation and CV 20 in bits 0 to 6 the two or three higher-order
digits of a 4 or 5-digit address in decimal notation. Values above 99 in
bits 0-6 of CV 19 are not intended in this case, but should be tolerated by the decoder.
The address is calculated by the decoder by multiplying the value in CV 20, bits 0
to 6 by 100 and adding it to the address part in CV 19. If the resulting
address is above 10239, then the vehicle is not part of a consist.

CV 19 bit 7 determines the relative direction within the consist. If the value is 0,
the vehicle-related direction of travel corresponds to that of the consist. If the value
is 1, the vehicle-related direction of travel is opposite to that of the consist.

CV 20 bit 7 = 1 designates the corresponding vehicle as the lead locomotive, so that in RailCom
channel 2 the same data is sent as if the decoder were addressed via its main address
in CV 1 or CV 17 and 18. This bit should only be set in one
decoder of the consist. This provides feedback from
one vehicle within the consist without having to address a decoder individually.

If bits 0-6 of CV 19 have the value 0 (0000000) and the value in CV 20 is 0
(00000000), then the vehicle is not part of a consist.

**CV 21 Function Control in a Consist F1-F8**
Defines whether the functions F1-F8 are controlled via the consist address in CV 19 and
CV 20. For each bit, the value 1 means that the corresponding function
is only addressed via the consist address. A value of 0 indicates that the
function is only addressed via the address of the respective vehicle in CV 1 or CV 17 and 18.
Bit 0 corresponds to F1, bit 7 corresponds to F8.

**CV 22 Function Control in a Consist F0 + F9-F28**
Defines whether the functions F0 + F9-F28 are controlled via the consist address in CV 19
and CV 20. For each bit, the value 1 means that the corresponding
function(s) are only addressed via the consist address. A value of 0 indicates
that the function(s) are only addressed via the address of the respective vehicle in CV 1 or CV 17
and 18. Bit 0 corresponds to F0 in the forward direction, bit 1
corresponds to F0 in the reverse direction, bit 2 corresponds to F9, bit 5 corresponds to F12, bit 6
simultaneously controls functions F13 to F20 and bit 7 simultaneously controls
functions F20 to F28. Bits 6 and 7 in CV22 always affect the entire
function group, in contrast to the individually selectable functions F0 to F12. For this
reason, there are no separate CVs for F13 to F20 and F21 to F28. The
support of bits 6 and 7 is optional.

**CV 23 Acceleration Adjustment**
CV 23 contains an additional factor for acceleration, which according to the formula (content of
CV 23 * 0.896) / (number of selected speed steps) is added to or
subtracted from the value in CV 3. The value is seven bits long (bits 0-6), with bit 7 being used as a sign
(0 = positive, 1 = negative). In case of an overflow, the maximum acceleration
should be used. In case of an underflow, no acceleration is used. This CV
is used to simulate different train lengths and train loads. It is often used in the
consisting of vehicles. This CV can also be changed with the special
configuration variable access command – short form (see [RCN-214]).

**CV 24 Braking Adjustment**
CV 24 contains an additional factor for braking, which according to the formula (content of
CV 24 * 0.896) / (number of selected speed steps) is added to or
subtracted from the value in CV 4. The value is seven bits long (bits 0-6), with bit 7 being used as a sign
(0 = positive, 1 = negative). In case of an overflow, the maximum braking should be
used. In case of an underflow, no braking is used. This CV is used to simulate
different train lengths and train loads. It is often used in the consisting of
vehicles. This CV can also be changed with the special configuration variable
access command – short form (see [RCN-214]).

**CV 25 Speed Tables, Mid-Range Speed**
A value from 2 to 127 inclusive is used to activate 1 to 126 manufacturer-predefined
speed tables. The value 2 = 00000010 results in a
linear curve.

A value from 128 to 154 inclusive defines, relative to 28 speed steps, the speed step
at which the standard or in CV 6 defined mid-range speed is assumed.
For 14 speed steps, the decoder divides this value by two; for 128 speed steps, the
value must be converted accordingly.

For values of 0 and 1 and above 154, this CV has no effect on the effective
speed table. If bit 4 is set in CV 29, this CV is ineffective.

**CV 27 Configuration for Automatic Stopping**
CV 27 configures the actions for which the decoder automatically stops the vehicle.

*   Bit 0 = Enable stop on an asymmetric DCC signal, positive on the
    right rail.
*   Bit 1 = Enable stop on an asymmetric DCC signal, positive on the left
    rail.
*   Bit 2 = Enable stop on a stop signal encoded by gaps in the sync bits
    (HLU).
*   Bit 3 = Reserved for future use
*   Bit 4 = Enable stop on detection of a DC voltage corresponding to driving in the
    opposite direction.
*   Bit 5 = Enable stop on detection of a DC voltage corresponding to driving in the
    same direction.
*   Bits 6-7 = Reserved for future use

Bit = 0 = disabled and Bit = 1 enabled.
Note: If the decoder does not support one of these properties, the
decoder must not allow the corresponding bit to be set.

**CV 28 Configuration of Two-Way Communication (RailCom)**

*   Bit 0 = Enable Channel 1 Address Broadcast
*   Bit 1 = Enable Channel 2 Data and Acknowledge
*   Bit 2 = Enable Channel 1 auto-off
*   Bit 3 = Enable ID 3 in Channel 1
*   Bit 4 = Enable programming address 0000 (long address 0) (see [RCN-217])
*   Bit 5 = Reserved for future use
*   Bit 6 = Enable high-current RailCom
*   Bit 7 = Enable automatic registration (RCN-218 or RailComPlus®)

Bit = 0 = disabled and Bit = 1 enabled.
Note: If the decoder does not support one of these properties, the
decoder must not allow the corresponding bit to be set.

**CV 29 Decoder Configuration**

*   Bit 0 = Direction of the vehicle: 0 = normal, 1 = inverse direction of travel. This bit
    controls the direction of the vehicle relative to the direction bit in the
    speed commands or the specification by an applied analog voltage. Direction-
    related functions such as lighting of the headlights (F0) are
    also reversed according to the direction of travel of the vehicle.
*   Bit 1 = Transmission of the light function F0: 0 = F0 is transmitted in bit 4 of the basic
    speed command (14 speed step mode), 1 = F0 is transmitted in bit 4
    of the function command F0-F4. Bit 4 in the basic
    speed command is used as the 5th speed step bit (28 speed step mode).
*   Bit 2 = Enable analog operation: 0 = digital operation only, 1 = analog operation also
    possible.
*   Bit 3 = Enable two-way communication (RailCom): 0 = disabled, 1 = enabled
*   Bit 4 = Speed table:
    *   0 = Speed is calculated from CVs 2, 5 + 6.
    *   1 = Speed is calculated from the table in CVs 67 – 94.
    It is up to the manufacturer whether CVs 2, 5, and 6 are also used
    to scale the table in CVs 67-94 when bit 4 is set. This must be clearly
    defined in the manual.
*   Bit 5 = Loco address: 0 = primary address from CV 1, 1 = extended address from CV 17 and
    CV 18.
    It is up to the manufacturer whether this bit is automatically reset when the short
    address is written to CV 1. This must be clearly defined in the
    manual.
*   Bit 6 = Reserved for future use
*   Bit 7 = Type of control: 0 = control via commands according to RCN-212
    (mobile decoder), 1 = control via commands according to RCN-213
    (accessory decoder).

Note: If the decoder does not support one of these properties, the
decoder must not allow the corresponding bit to be set.

**CV 30 Error Information**
If an error situation occurs in the decoder, this CV should contain a manufacturer-defined
error number. The value 0 means that no error has occurred.

**CV 31 – CV 32 Index Values for Extended Range**
To expand the usable CVs, the range of CV257 – CV512 was set up for
block-wise addressing. CV 31 and CV 32 are the pointers to the respective
block.

CV 31 contains the higher-order bits of the pointer and may have a value from 0 =
00000000 to 255 = 11111111 inclusive. The values from 0 =
00000000 to 15 = 00001111 inclusive are for the applications defined below
as well as for future use reserved (= 4096 blocks). The 61440 blocks accessible via the values
16 = 00010000 to 255 = 11111111 can be freely used by the
manufacturers.

CV32 contains the lower-order bits of the pointer and can take any value. If only
a 256-byte block is required, the CV values for it are to be set fixed and these are only
to be executed read-only.

The page selected with CV 31 = 0 and CV 32 = 0 corresponds to CVs 1 to 256.
The page selected with CV 31 = 0 and CV 32 = 1 corresponds to a memory area not otherwise
accessible. This area corresponds in decoders without indexed
access via CVs 31 and 32 to the area CVs 257 to 512.
The page selected with CV 31 = 0 and CV 32 = 2 corresponds to CVs 513 to 768.
The page selected with CV 31 = 0 and CV 32 = 3 corresponds to CVs 769 to 1024, whereby
from CV 897 connected SUSI modules are accessed. In this way, all SUSI CVs can be reached
even with command stations that only allow 3-digit CV numbers.

The pages addressed via CV31 = 0 and CV32 = 40 to 43 are used for function mapping
according to [RCN-227].
The page addressed via CV31 = 0 and CV32 = 254 is intended for describing the
functionalities of decoders. A bit = 1 means that the
corresponding functionality is supported by the decoder. The page can only be read.

```
Byte 0 Support for combined speed commands
Bit 0: Speed, direction and functions (0011-1100)
       according to [RCN-212] section 2.3.
Bits 1 to 7 reserved.
Byte 16 Support for combined programming commands
Bit 0: Short write command for CV #17 and CV #18 (1111-0100)
       according to [RCN-214] section 3.
Bit 1: Short write command for CV #31 and CV #32 (1111-0100)
       according to [RCN-214] section 3.
Bits 2 to 7 reserved
Byte 17 Support for special programming commands
Bit 0: XPOM according to [RCN-217]
Bits 1 to 7 reserved
Byte 33 Bit-mask for possible values in CV96, i.e., which types of
        function mapping are supported. Bit 0 is always 0, Bit 1 = 1
        means the value 1 can be set in CV 96, Bit 2 corresponds to
        value 2, Bit 3 corresponds to value 3, etc. up to Bit 7, which corresponds to value 7.
        0 to 7 bits can be set.
```

All remaining bytes are reserved.

The page addressed via CV31 = 0 and CV32 = 255 is reserved for RailCom applications according to
[RCN-217].
The pages addressed via CV31 = 1 and CV32 = 0 or 1 are used by RailComPlus®.
The 256 pages addressed via CV31 = 2 are used for data spaces according to [RCN-218].

Below is a tabular overview of the pages defined so far.

CV 31 | CV 32 | Page
--- | --- | ---
0 | 0 | CVs 1 to 256
0 | 1 | CVs 257 to 512
0 | 2 | CVs 513 to 768
0 | 3 | CVs 769 to 1024
0 | 4 - 39 | reserved
0 | 40 - 43 | Function mapping according to [RCN-227]
0 | 44 - 253 | reserved
0 | 254 | Functionalities of decoders
0 | 255 | RailCom page according to [RCN-217]
1 | 0 - 1 | Loco Info RailComPlus®
1 | 2 - 255 | reserved
2 | 0 | Data space 0 according to [RCN-218]
2 | 1 | Data space 1 according to [RCN-218]
2 | 2 | Data space 2 according to [RCN-218]
2 | 3 | reserved for systematic reasons
2 | 4 | Data space 4 according to [RCN-218]
2 | 5 | Data space 5 according to [RCN-218]
2 | 6 | Data space 6 according to [RCN-218]
2 | 7 | Data space 7 according to [RCN-218]
2 | 8 - 255 | reserved for further data spaces
3 - 15 | 0 - 255 | reserved
16 - 255 | 0 - 255 | Manufacturer-specific CVs

The data spaces accessible via CV 31 = 2 according to [RCN-218] are stored without HEADER and
without length specification, i.e., the first byte of the data space is accessed via CV 257.
The area not used by the data space should be filled with 0x00.

**CV 33 – CV 46 Function Mapping for F0 to F12**
The CVs form a matrix for a maximum of 14 decoder outputs. This allows the user to
assign the received function to one or more outputs for control. A value = 1
in a bit of these CVs controls the corresponding output. The default setting is that
F0 controls output 1 (LV) when driving forward and output 2 (LH) when driving backward,
F1 controls output 3 up to F12 which controls output 14. The LSB is always on the right in the valid
(white) area. The table shows the default settings of the "1" bits.

The weights of the bits are arranged offset according to the NMRA standard [S-9.2.2],
so that with CV 38 to 42 functions F4 to F8 can be assigned to outputs 4 to 11
and with CV 43 to 46 functions 7 to 14 can be assigned.
For reasons of compatibility, this assignment is retained. For the use of
functions up to F28 and for any assignment between functions and a maximum of 32
outputs, reference is made to [RCN-227].

MSB | Output Ax | LSB
--- | --- | ---
CV | Description | 14 | 13 | 12 | 11 | 10 | 9 | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1
33 | F0 forward | | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1
34 | F0 reverse | | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 |
35 | Function 1 | | | | | | | | | | | | 1 | |
36 | Function 2 | | | | | | | | | | | 1 | | |
37 | Function 3 | | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | |
38 | Function 4 | | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | |
39 | Function 5 | | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | |
40 | Function 6 | | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | |
41 | Function 7 | | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | |
42 | Function 8 | | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | |
43 | Function 9 | | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | |
44 | Function 10 | | | 1 | | | | | | | | | | |
45 | Function 11 | | 1 | | | | | | | | | | | |
46 | Function 12 | 1 | | | | | | | | | | | | |

**CV 47 – CV 64 Manufacturer-specific CVs**
This CV range may be freely used by the decoder manufacturer.

**CV 65 Kick Start**
Was the extent of extra pulses applied to the motor between stop and before the
first speed step in the NMRA. With today's regulated decoders, this is no longer
necessary.

Due to different usage, it has been released and may be freely used by the decoder manufacturer.

**CV 66 Forward Trim**
Contains a scaling with which a motor voltage can be multiplied when the
decoder drives the vehicle in the forward direction. The scaling is designed as n/128.
If CV 66 contains the value 0, then no trimming in the forward direction is
implemented.

**CV 67 – CV 94 Speed Table**
The speed table consists of 28 bytes and thus of values for 28 speed steps.
If the decoder is operated with 14 or 128 speed steps, the table must be internally
adapted by omitting values or by interpolation. The use of this table is
enabled via bit 4 in CV 29.

**CV 95 Reverse Trim**
Contains a scaling with which a motor voltage can be multiplied when the
decoder drives the vehicle in the reverse direction. The scaling is designed as n/128.
If CV 95 contains the value 0, then no trimming in the reverse direction is
implemented.

**CV 96 Selection of the Method for Function Mapping**
Is used to select the method for function mapping. If multiple function mapping systems
are implemented in a decoder, the user can select the desired system via the
configuration variable CV 96. If only one system is
implemented, CV 96 must have the corresponding value. The decoder may only
accept values when writing to CV 96 that correspond to implemented function mappings.
Otherwise, the old value must be retained.

Within CV 96, only bits 0 to 2 are used to select the function mapping.
The other bits are still reserved and must contain a 0.

Value | Meaning
--- | ---
0 | Invalid (an unimplemented CV 96 may yield a 0)
1 | Function mapping via CVs 33 to 46 according to this RCN or [S-9.2.2]
2 | Function mapping via CVs 257 to 512 in the bank selected by CV 31 = 0 and CV 32 = 40 with CVs per function according to [RCN-227] section 2
3 | Function mapping via CVs 257 to 512 in the bank selected by CV 31 = 0 and CV 32 = 41 with CVs per output according to [RCN-227] section 3.1
4 | Function mapping via CVs 257 to 512 in the bank selected by CV 31 = 0 and CV 32 = 42 with CVs per output according to [RCN-227] section 3.2
5 | Function mapping via CVs 257 to 512 in the bank selected by CV 31 = 0 and CV 32 = 43 with CVs per output according to [RCN-227] section 3.3
6 | Manufacturer-specific function mapping
7 | reserved

**CV 97 – CV 104 Manufacturer-specific CVs**
This CV range is reserved by the NMRA, but has already been used by several manufacturers.
Therefore, there are no restrictions on these CVs from the RailCommunity and
they can be freely used by the decoder manufacturer.

**CV 105 – CV 106 User Identification**
These CVs are reserved for the user. He can store additional vehicle-specific
data here.

**CV 107 – CV 108 Extended Manufacturer ID / Manufacturer-specific CVs**
If the "Manufacturer ID" CV 8 contains the value 238 = 0xEE, these two CVs are for
the extended 12-bit manufacturer ID. The 8 lower-order bits are in
CV 108 and the 4 higher-order bits are in CV 107 bits 0 to 3. Bits 4 to 7 in CV 107 are
always 0. For all other values in CV 8, these CVs may be freely used by the decoder manufacturer.

**CV 109 – CV 111 Extended Manufacturer Version Number**
These three CVs are intended by the NMRA for an extension of the manufacturer version number in
CV 7. Since the value in CV 7 is manufacturer-dependent and the extension
will be different for each manufacturer anyway, there are no
restrictions on these CVs from the RailCommunity and they can be freely used by the
decoder manufacturer like the following group.

**CV 112 – CV 256 Manufacturer-specific CVs**
This CV group may be freely used by the decoder manufacturer.

**CV 257 – CV 512 Extended CV Range**
To expand the usable CVs, the range of CV 257 to CV 512 was set up for
block-wise addressing. There are 65536 blocks with 256 bytes each available.
The first 4096 blocks are reserved for future use. The
freely usable area starts at block 4096. This means that a total of 61,440 indexed blocks are freely
usable. The blocks are addressed via CV 31 (high address bits) and CV 32
(low address bits).

**CV 513 – CV 768 Manufacturer-specific**
This area was originally intended for accessory decoders, but is no longer
needed for that purpose. Even though many accessory decoders still respond to these CVs, these
CVs can be used for mobile decoders in a manufacturer-specific way.

**CV 769 – CV 896 Reserved NMRA**
These CVs are reserved. CVs 892 to 896 were reserved for dynamic values for reading via
RailCom, but are not needed at the present time. These CVs are marked as reserved until
a final decision is made.

**CV 897 – CV 1024 SUSI Configuration Variables**
These CVs are reserved for the SUSI bus module expansion interface and are defined in
[RCN-602].

## 3 CV Table for Accessory Decoders

In the older versions of NMRA RP-9.2.2, the CV range
from 513 was intended for accessory decoders. However, since this range is not accessible by all programming devices,
the accessory decoders ignored the bit with the value 512
in the CV number. Therefore, NMRA [S-9.2.2] was also adapted and the CVs from CV 1 were defined
and the CV numbers higher by 512 were marked as optional. These optional CV
numbers are entered in the second column. The range CV 513 to 895 can be
used by any manufacturer as desired.

Since the standard addressing via CV 1 and CV 9 does not work for decoders that are to respond to several independent addresses in operating mode,
these CVs are only listed as optional. In any case, the address of most accessory decoders is
set via a button.

CV No. | Permissible^2 | CV Usage | Type | Range | Comment
--- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ---
1 | 513 | Decoder Address Low Bits | M | 6 or 8 Bit LSB
2 | 514 | Additional Activation | O | Act. of outputs
3 | 515 | Time Output 1 Active | O
4 | 516 | Time Output 2 Active | O
5 | 517 | Time Output 3 Active | O
6 | 518 | Time Output 4 Active | O
7 | 519 | Manufacturer Version Number | M | Value unchangeable^3; assigned by manufacturer
8 | 520 | Manufacturer ID | M | Yes | Value unchangeable^3; specified by NMRA
9 | 521 | Decoder Address High Bits | M | 3 Bit MSB
10–14 | --- | - | Reserved NMRA
15 & 16 | --- | Decoder Lock | O | Yes
17 & 18 | --- | Mirrored Address | - | CVs 1 and 9 mirrored
19–27 | --- | - | Reserved NMRA
28 | 540 | Configuration of Two-Way Communication (RailCom) | O | Yes | Bitwise
29 | 541 | Decoder Configuration | R | Yes | Bitwise
30 | --- | - | Reserved NMRA
31 & 32 | --- | Index Values for Extended Range | O | Yes | Pointer for CV 257 to 512
33 | --- | Status of Outputs | O | Yes | RailCom feedback
34–81 | --- | Manufacturer-specific | O
82–106 | --- | - | Reserved NMRA
107–108 | --- | 12-bit Extended Manufacturer ID | (M) | Only if CV 8 = 238, otherwise reserved
109–111 | --- | - | Reserved NMRA
112–128 | --- | Manufacturer-specific | O
129–256 | --- | Manufacturer-specific | O
257–512 | --- | Extended CV Range | O | Addressed through CV 31 and 32
513–895 | --- | Manufacturer-specific | O | Freely usable by manufacturer

(^2) Not recommended for new developments
(^3) Write commands to this CV trigger special functions according to [RCN-226]

### 3.1 Description of CVs for Accessory Decoders

**CV 1 (513) Decoder Address Low Bits**
CV1 contains the low-order address bits of the decoder. The high-order address bits are stored in
CV 9. Two types of accessory decoders are supported: addressing the
decoder and addressing the output. An accessory decoder must support one type
and optionally the other type. The type of decoder is defined in CV 29, bit 6. If
CV 1 = 1 and CV 9 = 0, then both types of accessory decoders respond with the
first output pair to the user address 1 = address 4 in the data packet (see
[RCN-213]). The type of addressing that is supported must be clearly documented in the manual and
on the packaging.

1.  Addressing the decoder: CV 1 contains the 6 low-order bits of the 9-bit
    user address in bits 0 to 5 as in the first byte of the commands for accessory decoders
    according to [RCN-213]. Bits 6 and 7 have the value 0.
2.  Addressing an output pair: CV 1 contains the 8 low-order bits of the 11-bit
    user address in bits 0 to 7. Before comparison with the data packet, the
    decoder must add 3 to the address set in CVs 1 and 9. Bits 2 to 7
    then correspond to bits 0 to 5 in the first byte of the commands for accessory decoders
    according to [RCN-213]; bits 0 and 1 correspond to bits 1 and 2 in the second byte
    of the commands for accessory decoders according to [RCN-213].

The three most significant bits are stored in CV 9.

If an accessory decoder supports more than one sequential output, the
stored address corresponds to the value for the first output in the series.

**CV 2 (514) Additional Activation**
Bits 0 to 7 = additional activation of the outputs: If the corresponding bit for the output
is 0, then the output is not activatable by an additional input on the decoder.
If the bit is 1, the output can be activated by an additional input on the decoder.

**CV 3 to 6 (515 to 518) Time Output 1 to 4 Active**
The time an output is active can be determined by the corresponding configuration variable.
CV 3 (515) determines the time for output 1 and CV 6 (518) the time
for output 4. If the value is 0, the output is active permanently or until a switch-off command.

**CV 7 (519) Manufacturer Version Number**
Corresponds to CV 7 for mobile decoders.

**CV 8 (520) Manufacturer ID**
Corresponds to CV 8 for mobile decoders.

**CV 9 (521) Decoder Address High Bits**
CV 9 contains, regardless of the type of addressing described for CV 1, the three
most significant bits of the user address. These are stored in bits 0 to 2. Bits
3 to 7 are always 0.

**CV 15 – CV 16 Decoder Lock**
Corresponds to CVs 15 and 16 for mobile decoders.

**CVs 17 and 18 Mirrored Address**
Mirror of CVs 1 and 9 for accessory decoders, similar to the CVs for mobile decoders,
where an output pair is always addressed. Bits 6 and 7 in CV 17 are only
set if bit 7 in CV 29(541) = 0, i.e., if the accessory decoder is addressed via a mobile
address. Since accessory decoders only have 11 address bits, if
bit 7 in CV 29(541) is set, bits 3 to 7 in CV 17 must be 0.

**CV 28 (540) Configuration of Two-Way Communication (RailCom)**
CV 28 is used to configure the two-way communication of the decoder (RailCom)
if bit 3 in CV 29 is set.

*   Bit 0 = Reserved for future use
*   Bit 1 = Enable Channel 2 Data and Acknowledge
*   Bits 2 - 5 = Reserved for future use
*   Bit 6 = Enable high-current RailCom
*   Bit 7 = Enable automatic registration (RCN-218 or RailComPlus®)

Bit = 0 = disabled and Bit = 1 enabled.

Note: If the decoder does not support one of these properties, the
decoder must not allow the corresponding bit to be set.

**CV 29 (541) Decoder Configuration**

*   Bits 0 - 2 = Reserved for future use
*   Bit 3 = Enable two-way communication (RailCom):
    `0 = disabled, 1 = enabled`
*   Bit 4 = Reserved for future use
*   Bit 5 = Decoder Type: 0 = Simple Accessory Decoder, 1 = Extended Accessory Decoder
*   Bit 6 = Method of addressing: 0 = Addressing the decoder,
    `1 = Addressing the output`
*   Bit 7 = Type of control:
    `0 = Control via commands according to [RCN-212] (Mobile Decoder),`
    `1 = Control via commands according to [RCN-213] (Accessory Decoder)`
    If bit 7 = 1, then the decoder may only ignore the most significant bit of the CV
    number during programming. If this
    property is used, CV 513 becomes CV1, etc. Decoders that use this conversion
    must clearly document this in the manual.

Note: If the decoder does not support one of these properties, the
decoder must not allow the corresponding bit to be set.

**CVs 31 and 32 Index Values for Extended Range**
Corresponds to CVs 31 and 32 for mobile decoders.

**CVs 33 Status of the Decoder's Outputs**
This CV contains the status of all four output pairs of simple accessory decoders. It
can be used to query the status via RailCom. The assignment of the outputs to
the bits in CV 33 is as follows:

Output Pair | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1
--- | --- | --- | --- | ---
R-Bit in command to select this output (button color) | 0 (R) | 1 (G) | 0 (R) | 1 (G) | 0 (R) | 1 (G) | 0 (R) | 1 (G)
Bit in CV 33 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 | 0

According to [RCN-213], in the command for simple accessory decoders, R = 0 means turnout to
diverging or direction left or signal to stop (traditionally the red button) and R = 1
means turnout straight or direction right or signal to proceed (traditionally the green button).

**CV 107 – CV 108 Extended Manufacturer ID / Manufacturer-specific CVs**
Corresponds to CVs 107 and 108 for mobile decoders.

## 4 CV Table for SUSI Modules

The CVs for the SUSI range CV 897 to CV 1024 are documented in [RCN-602].

## Appendix A: References to other Standards

### A.1 Normative References

No other standards need to be adhered to in order to comply with this standard.

### A.2 Informative References

The standards and documents listed here are for informational purposes only and are
not part of this standard.

[RCN-200] RCN-200 Multi-Protocol Operation Behavior of Decoders and Command Stations
[RCN-211] RCN-211 DCC Packet Structure, Address Ranges and Global Commands
[RCN-212] RCN-212 DCC Operating Commands for Mobile Decoders
[RCN-213] RCN-213 DCC Operating Commands for Accessory Decoders
[RCN-214] RCN-214 DCC Configuration Commands
[RCN-217] RCN-217 RailCom – DCC Feedback Protocol
[RCN-218] RCN-218 DCC-A – Automatic Registration
[RCN-226] RCN-226 DCC Special Values for Configuration
[RCN-227] RCN-227 DCC Extended Function Mapping
[RCN-602] RCN-602 SUSI-Bus Configuration Variables
[S-9.2.2] NMRA: S-9.2.2 DCC Configuration Variables
[S-9.2.2 Appendix A] NMRA: S-9.2.2 Appendix A DCC Manufacturer ID codes

## Appendix B: History

Date | Chapter | Changes compared to the previous version
--- | --- | ---
27.07.2025 | 2.1 | Addition of Bit 7 in CV 20. CV 28 Bit 4 Programming address changed from 0003 to 0000. Definition of how data spaces according to [RCN-218] are stored in the pages selected via CVs 31 and 32.
21.07.2023 | 2.1 / 3.1 | Minor corrections in the section for CVs 15 and 16. CV 28 Bit 3 added to enable ID 3 in Channel 1. SUSI modules are also reached via CV 31 = 0, CV 32 = 3. The page selected via CV 31 = 2, CV 32 = 3 is now marked as reserved. CV 33 for the status of the outputs for feedback via RailCom.
26.11.2022 | 2.1 / 2.2 / 3.1 | CVs 513–768 now manufacturer-specific. Definition of CV 20 for long consist address. CVs 21 and 22: Functions never react simultaneously to primary and consist address. Extension of CV 22 for functions F13 to F28. Definition of the bits in CVs 107 and 108. Same values in CV 1 & 9 for user address 1 (as in [RCN-213]).
23.07.2022 | 2.1–3.1 | The following CVs have been marked as mandatory (M): 2, 3, 4, 5, 17 and 18. CV 7 and 8 now "Value unchangeable" instead of "Read Only". Manufacturer ID instead of Manufacturer Identification. CV 12 text adapted, as in future in accordance with the NMRA. Extended text for CVs 15 and 16 and CV 15 = 255 to unlock all decoders. 12 (instead of 16) bit manufacturer ID in CVs 107 and 108. Further specification for CVs 15 and 16. Addition of the SUSI Configuration Variables (reference to [RCN-602]). CVs 15, 16, 107 and 108 also for accessory decoders.
31.06.2021 | 2.1 / 3.1 | Addition of data spaces for [RCN-218] up to data space 7. Some CVs for accessory decoders no longer mandatory. CVs from 513 as mirrored CVs from 1 only "permissible".
12.12.2020 | 2.1 | Assignments of the indexed pages supplemented and summarized in a table.
10.05.2019 | 3.1 | Bits 0 and 2 in CV 28 deleted or marked as reserved.
02.12.2018 | 2.1 / 2.2 | Editorial: Explanation of "Value range" of the CV table and description of CVs 17 and 18 for mobile and accessory decoders. CV #28 definition adapted to [RCN-217]. New values for CV96 according to the new RCN-227.
22.07.2017 | 2.1 / 2.2 / 3.1 | Any values in CV1 for other protocols, DCC may be disabled. Long address 0 in CVs 17 and 18 explicitly forbidden. Assignment of the pages reached via CVs 31 and 32 to CVs 1 to 1024, reservation of 2 pages reserved via CVs 31 and 32. CVs 17 and 18 for accessory decoders.
31.07.2016 | All | First draft

Copyright 2025 RailCommunity – Association of Digital Model Railroad Product Manufacturers e.V.
