# RCN-226

## DCC Protocol

```
Special Values for Configuration
```
```
Date of Issue
03.08.2014
```
```
RailCommunity – Association
of Digital Model Railroad
Product Manufacturers
```
## Contents

```
1 General ......................................................................................................................... 1
1.1 Purpose of the Standard ........................................................................................................... 1
2 CV #8 ................................................................................................................................... 2
2.1 Standardized Values ............................................................................................................ 2
2.2 Non-Standardized Values ................................................................................................... 2
3 CV #7 ................................................................................................................................... 2
3.1 Configuration of Addressless Devices ................................................................................. 2
3.2 Setting of Special Configurations ....................................................................... 3
Appendix A: References to other Standards ............................................................................... 3
A.1 Normative References .................................................................................................... 3
A.2 Informative References ................................................................................................... 3
Appendix B: History ................................................................................................................. 3
Appendix C: Values for CV #7 ................................................................................................... 4
C.1 Lenz .............................................................................................................................. 4
C.2 Tams ............................................................................................................................. 4
Appendix D: Values for CV #8 ................................................................................................... 5
D.1 Lenz .............................................................................................................................. 5
D.2 Massoth ........................................................................................................................ 5
D.3 Viessmann .................................................................................................................... 5
D.4 Zimo ............................................................................................................................. 6
```

## 1 General

### 1.1 Purpose of the Standard

This standard describes the values that are written to the two non-modifiable CVs 7 and 8
to perform special configurations. This also includes the
configuration of devices that do not have their own address, such as boosters.

Some of these values are written only in normal operation, others only in
programming mode. This depends on the type of change desired and is specified in the
respective section.

## 2 CV #8

### 2.1 Standardized Values

When writing the value 8 to CV #8 in programming mode, a decoder must reset all CVs
back to the factory settings with the default values specified in the decoder's manual.
These must be fixed values that are independent of any
previous programming or other settings.

This is the only standardized value.

### 2.2 Non-Standardized Values

For partial or other setting-dependent resetting of the decoder,
any values other than 8 can be used. Examples are resetting with
the exception of the address and the speed table, restoring saved
configuration tables, or resetting taking into account data from
sound projects.

Furthermore, it is possible to call up certain predefined configurations by writing a
value to CV #8.

For security reasons, only commands in programming mode should be allowed for all reset actions and configuration changes.

## 3 CV #7

### 3.1 Configuration of Addressless Devices

This configuration variable 7 is used by devices that do not have their own address
and for which a connection to a programming track is not possible or reasonable. Therefore,
the configuration commands in operating mode are recognized regardless of the address,
but only the non-modifiable CV #7 is used. This is to avoid unwanted effects in
decoders with an address.

In addition, a single defined value, the key value, must first be written to prepare the
device for receiving the actual values. After that, a value for
configuration can be written. After that, or if no value was written after
a specified time, the reception of configuration values must be disabled again and
a new writing of the key value is required for configuration.

The manufacturer ID according to CV #8 in decoders is to be used as the key value.
For reasons of grandfathering, the company Lenz can continue to use 50.

### 3.2 Setting of Special Configurations

If writing to CV #7 is used to set special configurations in decoders,
only write commands in programming mode may be observed.
Write commands to CV #7 in operating mode must be ignored by all decoders
so that there are no unintentional overlaps with the configuration of addressless devices.

## Appendix A: References to other Standards

### A.1 Normative References

No other standards need to be adhered to to comply with this standard.

### A.2 Informative References

The standards and documents listed here are for informational purposes only and are
not part of this standard.

[RCN225] RCN-225 DCC Configuration Variables^1

## Appendix B: History

```
Date Changes since the previous version
```
12.09.2014 First Version

(^1) RCN-225 is still in preparation at the time of creation of this standard. It will be created on the basis of
NMRA S-9.2.2.

## Appendix C: Values for CV #7

Below are the values used for the existing devices, sorted by manufacturer.
This table is for informational purposes only and is not part of the
standard to be adhered to.

### C.1 Lenz

Devices: Booster LV102
Booster part of the command station LZV100
Key value: 50

Values for configuration:

Value Range | Function
--- | ---
22 - 44 | Track voltage between 11 V and 22 V in 0.5 V steps, Voltage [V] = Value / 2
90 | E-line active
91 | E-line not active
92 | Switch off RailCom Cutout
93 | Switch on RailCom Cutout
96 | Display LV102 version via LED
99 | Reset to factory settings

### C.2 Tams

Devices: Booster B-4
Key value: 62

Values for configuration:

Value Range | Function
--- | ---
8 | Reset to factory settings
10 - 24 | Track voltage between 10 V and 24 V in 1 V steps, Voltage [V] = Value
34 - 40 | Restart time after short circuit in seconds = Value - 30
42 - 45 | Max. track current (shutdown current) [A] = Value - 40
51 | Switch on RailCom Cutout
52 | Switch off RailCom Cutout
71 | Switch on with turnout command
72 | Switch off with turnout command
73 | Switch with turnout command (programming mode)
74 | Switch on watchdog
75 | Switch off watchdog
76 | Watchdog (programming mode)
81 - 86 | Limit for short circuit warning (Value - 81) * 0.2 [A]
100 - 109 | additional restart time after 5 short circuits (Value - 100) * 10 [s]

## Appendix D: Values for CV #8

Below are the values used for the existing devices, sorted by manufacturer.
This table is for informational purposes only and is not part of the
standard to be adhered to.

### D.1 Lenz

Decoder | Value | Function
--- | --- | ---
All | 33 | Reset to factory settings like Value = 8
Silver+ PluX12 | 90 | Standard setting
Silver+ PluX12 | 91 | Tillig diesel and electric locomotives
Silver+ PluX12 | 92 | Tillig diesel and electric locomotives with high beam headlights

### D.2 Massoth

Decoder | Value | Function
--- | --- | ---
New from 2014 | 11 | Reset of the most important basic settings
New from 2014 | 16 | (Emergency) removal of the programming lock CV15+16
New from 2014 | 22 | Reset of the functions for: LV, LH, FA1, FA2
New from 2014 | 33 | Reset of the functions for: FA3 .. FA6
New from 2014 | 44 | Reset of the functions for: FA7 .. FA10
New from 2014 | 66 | Reset of the driving and motor settings
New from 2014 | 111 | Reset of the sound functions: Function mapping
New from 2014 | 122 | Reset of the sound functions: Basic settings
New from 2014 | 133 | Reset of sound functions: Volumes
New from 2014 | 222 | Removal of a "manufacturer lock"

### D.3 Viessmann

Decoder | Value | Function
--- | --- | ---
In-house developments | 9 | Reset of all CVs except address and speed curve

### D.4 Zimo

At Zimo, CV sets are continuously defined for specific applications and are then available in
the software common to all decoders. If there is an "All" in the Decoder column,
this naturally means that this applies to decoders that were delivered after the definition of the CV set
or have received a software update.

Decoder | Value | Function
--- | --- | ---
All | 0 | Reset of all CVs to values according to the operating manual
MX634C and MX634D | 3 | Conversion of MX634D to MX634C (AUX3 and AUX4 logic level)
MX634C and MX634D | 4 | Conversion of MX634C to MX634D (AUX3 and AUX4 amplified outputs)
All | 8 | Hard Reset: Reset of all CVs to the last selected CV set, e.g., the manufacturer-specific settings from Set #14
All | 9 | Hard Reset and setting to old LGB-MZS technology (14 speed steps, pulse chain reception)
All | 10 - 13 | Selection of predefined CV sets
All | 14 - 16 | Roco-specific CV sets without RailCom
All | 17 - 28 | Roco-specific CV sets with RailCom
All | 29 - 33 | Fleischmann-specific CV sets

Copyright 2014 RailCommunity – Association of Digital Model Railroad Product Manufacturers e.V.
